---
title: "Resolving conflicts in package-lock.json"
date: 2023-03-14
tags: javascript node git
---

## In a Nutshell

`package-lock.json` is auto-generated by npm, so it's not feasible to fix the conflicts by hand.

```sh
git checkout --theirs package-lock.json
npm install
```

- This can be done for other types of lockfiles too, like `yarn.lock`
- If you're using Git in a graphic interface (GitKraken, VSCode, etc), look for "Accept Theirs"

After that, as a sanity check, validate if your project still builds and runs.


## What does that do?

Most of the time, conflicts in lockfiles happen because your branch and the incoming branch (that is, the branch you're merging into yours)
both have changed the project's dependencies, be that adding, removing or existing ones.

What the recipe does is copy over the `package-lock.json` from the incoming branch, and then update it with the dependency changes in your branch.


## Why bother comitting the package-lock.json?

The main benefit, in conjunction with `npm ci`, is making the installation of dependencies reproducible. `npm install` may try to update dependencies if possible. This is usually not a problem, but may cause your build and deploy pipeline to fail if a dependency releases a broken update, [like it happened with aws-sdk a few months ago](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-js-v3/issues/4060).

Having a lockfile commited and using `npm ci` in place of `npm install` in your deployment pipeline will protect you from this kind of problem.


## Other Recommendations

- Avoid having more than one type of lockfile committed (for example, both `package-lock.json` and `yarn.lock`), and by extension avoid using multiple dependency managers in the same project. Discuss with your teammates which dependency manager you're all going to use, and only use that
- Use [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for managing multiple Node versions. This might come in handy if you have a project that only works with an older version, but would like to use a more updated one the rest of the time.
- For more future-proofing, also document the version of NPM and Node you're using:

In `package.json` (replace with whatever version your project uses)

Example: setting a minimum version:

```json
{
  "engines" : {
    "npm" : ">=8.0.0",
    "node" : ">=16.0.0"
  }
}
```

Example: setting a maximum version (for old projects, that don't work with newer versions):

```json
{
  "engines" : {
    "node" : ">=8.0.0 <9.0.0"
  }
}
```

If using NVM, in `.nvmrc` put the output of `node -v`:

```
v16.14.2
```

This will automatically be picked up when you run `nvm use`.